This RxJS driven approach has some issues as I outlined, to be precise you could still have an
app where state can be updated from anywhere because you maybe failed to set up a clear flow of data.
Your state might also possibly be mutable, which means that whilst you might have only a couple of places
where your state is intended to change, your code in there might not force you to state the old data
by overwriting it with new data and that is what I would recommend doing though because otherwise Angular
sometimes doesn't pick up some changes to your state because of the reference type nature of objects
and arrays in Javascript, where if you only change a property of an object, the overall object didn't
change and therefore such a state change might not get picked up.
And in addition, handling side effects and that means things like HTTP requests,
it's unclear where this should happen - should you write the code for sending them in a component? Should
you do it in a service?
And yes, all these problems can of course be solved and you can have a clear route and a clear approach
regarding all these things but especially if you're working on a bigger app with a bigger team,
it can be hard to enforce the best practices across all team members here and therefore, enforcing a
specific pattern might be hard because Angular by default doesn't enforce one and that is where NgRx
may help you
or to be precise, Redux may help you.
Now what is Redux, I just introduced NgRx,
what is Redux?
Well if you have a ReactJS background, you might already know Redux, otherwise you will learn about it
now. Redux is a state management pattern,
it's also a library that helps you implement that pattern into any application.
The idea behind Redux,
so behind that approach for managing state and always keep in mind, state is just data or information
in your app,
so the idea behind managing that state with Redux is that you have one central store in your entire
application that holds your application state,
so think of that as a large Javascript object that contains all the data the different parts of your
application need, of course kind of categorized in properties that might then hold nested objects
but in the end that's the idea,
have one large data store. Your different parts of the application, services and components, can still
interact with each other but they receive their state from that store,
so that store is the single source of truth that manages the entire application state.
Now of course, state is not just received, you sometimes also need to change the state,
for example when you add a new recipe and for that in the Redux world, you dispatch so-called actions.
An action is the end also just a Javascript object with an identifier
basically identifying the kind of action you want to perform and optionally, a payload.
So if that action needs some extra data to complete,
for example if you're creating a new recipe, you would need to attach that recipe data to the action,
then you can have that data in the action that is supported by Redux.
Now that action doesn't directly reach the store,
instead it reaches a so-called reducer. Now a reducer is just a function, a Javascript function that gets
the current state which is stored in the store and the action as a input, passed in automatically by
the Redux library
if you use that and then in the reducer, you can have a look at the action identifier,
find out which kind of action it is, for example add a recipe or delete the recipe and then perform code
on the state which you also got as an argument to update that state,
however in an immutable way, so by copying it and then changing the copy because ultimately, the reducer
returns a new state, so it returns a copy of the old state that will have been changed according to the
action and that state which is returned by the reducer then is forwarded to the application store where
this reduced state,
again the state was edited immutably, so without touching the old state instead copying it and
then editing the copy, so where this reduced state is then overwriting the old state of the application.
That is the Redux pattern and as you can see, it enforces a pretty clean and clear flow of data.
We only have one place in the app where we store our data and we only edit it through actions and reducers
and we received the state through so-called subscriptions which we can setup.
Now if you were using Angular, you could also use the Redux library,
it's not restricted to be used with ReactJS only but NgRx is in the end just Angular's implementation
of Redux.
Now it comes with some differences or Angular specific things, for example the left orange box here,
it's deeply integrated into Angular, so it for example comes with injectable services so that you can
easily access your application store in any part of your app by simply injecting it.
It also embraces RxJS and observables, so all the state is managed as one large observable
you could say and that also can yield certain advantages,
for example you can use all the observable operators to then edit the state you are fetching in the
component where you need it in the way you need it there,
this will not change the store state of course
and it of course also supports TypeScript.
Now in addition, there is one extra part of that state management library which is about side effects.
So NgRx also gives you a tool that makes working with side effects easier and side effects, just
to bring that back in memory, are things like sending HTTP requests. NgRx also helps with
that, traditionally in Redux, that was kind of an open question,
it was unclear where you should send such side effects, where you should send such HTTP requests, so typically
asynchronous code was always a problem because reducers, I can say that already, only may execute synchronous
code,
so you must not and you can't send HTTP requests from inside a reducer function for example and
therefore it always was kind of an open question in Redux where you should do such asynchronous tasks,
NgRx ships with a built-in solution and you will learn about that solution here too.
So that was lots of theory, time to finally get back to the code and start implementing that pattern and
that package there
step-by-step.